#You're Still Going to Have to Dismantle Capitalism When Your Father Is Dead

I was supposed to be exceptionally well-prepared for my father's death. I'd basically been anticipating it for about ten years before he died last Christmas. In his last few days, he sometimes didn't know who I was. When he did, he never remembered where I live, what I did for work, or how I was doing. By this time, I'd taken to making up outlandish lies every time he asked, as it was more interesting for both him and me to talk about being an international jewel thief than to say that I was a struggling freelancer.

This wasn't a new development in his last days. My dad was born in 1931. The year I started high school he turned 70. By the time I'd finished high school he'd had cancer, a minor stroke, and received an official diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Between 2006 and 2013, he didn't really get much worse, but he never got better. I got worse at dealing with it and better at drinking over it (though, to be fair, I drank over a lot of things). My own health and safety forced me to stop drinking, but I never really got better at dealing. 

It should have been easier. I had all this time to get used to it--I barely *had* a father after 2005, why was I this sad when he actually died now? I'm not even sure I have a right to *be* sad, given the number of years I *could* have been a decent daughter and wasn't. Instead, I drank to forget that my dad couldn't remember. Being sad over something that you can only blame on yourself is stupid, and I don't want to be stupid, so why can't I just stop feeling sad?

Lately I've noticed that most of my sadness just ends up channeled into anger. Not anger at him or at anyone in particular, but anger at the fact I'm sad about it. For so long I put so much work into *not having feelings*, or at least abstracting the feelings into something else that I could control. Being faced with feelings--like big, actual endless feelings that can't be channeled into something productive--is unexpected and annoying. Don't you know I don't have *time* for this? Who has time for this? How does anyone function with loss? Why aren't you all paralyzed while I'm paralyzed? 

Because meanwhile, the rest of the world isn't having these feelings. The rest of the world is just *happening* and I'm not a part of it. They're not sad, so why am I? The rest of the world (by which I really just mean the news, by which I really just mean the internet) isn't ever really sad. They're outraged. Over what, I'm not even sure half the time--someone has done something that demonstrates privilege, someone else has dones something that demonstrate hypocrisy, and the thirst for some impossible definition of accountability is insatiable.  

The irony here is my dad was a journalist. He worked as a correspondent for NBC News starting in 1967. He covered Vietnam, he covered Anwar Sadat, he covered the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. He worked less when I was growing up (a victim of the GE acquisition of NBC and subsequent layoffs), but I remember the times he had to unexpectedly take off for a story (memory leads to exaggeration; while I can't recall if he *actually* missed me in a play because he was covering Matthew Shepard's funeral, he *did* cover that event and he certainly missed a few performances in my short-lived childhood acting career). 

So it's not surprising that I can relate more readily to current events than to myself: the news was a constant presence in my life. My mom still gets three newspapers delivered to her every day. Jim Lehrer was background noise in my household for years, and as an adult I'm irrationally loyal to my public radio station. But I also have these weird emotional ties to the news, because it's part of these online communities I love. 

The difference between how my father lived with the news and how I live with it is that for him, it was never personal. He had *opinions*, of course, but he did his job well because he didn't do his job *for himself*. He hated being on camera, he hated the egos of network news--he just did a good job getting information and telling a story. 

He worked in a different time, of course, and I don't know if he would have even become a journalist if this were the climate in which he was expected to do it. I don't want to be motivated by insatiable outrage or prestige or proving my own cleverness anymore. I like stories, and I just want to do something that would have made my dad proud. When I imagine saying that to my journalist or activist friends, it sounds...lame. Like they won't want to be my friend anymore if that's how I really feel. 

Almost everyone I know and love online has very, very strong feelings about the way the world ought to be. For some of them it's their job. For some of them it's a catharsis (for some of them it's both). It's so much easier to have feelings about inappropriate comments on the internet or about global crises or about a famous person dying because you can have them *with* people. Over the last few months I've been processing all these weird new emotions of loss, anger, and confusion that have *nothing* to do with drones, capitalism, surveillance, technology, or patriarchy--and thus feel utterly *irrelevant* and *wrong* to share, like mourning my dad is as unproductive and self-indulgent as watching reality television. (My ability to share emotions with my immediate family or other people close to me is a whole other conversation that, frankly, I don't want to have with the internet.)

I remember a number of times hearing people talk about self-care and activism, about how to balance personal needs with supporting movements. For the most part I assumed this just meant remembering to take naps. But after my dad died, I started to think it means recognizing that to a huge extent *most of this shit you're all angry about all the time does not matter*. People you love are going to die, people you love are going to forget who you are, you're going to die, you're going to forget who people are, and no amount of collective bargaining gains or policy wins or really popular infographics will fucking matter when it happens. As reluctant as I am to admit it, it's probably more important that I deal with the personal mess of my life right now than pour myself into critique and whatever nonsense people think constitutes "direct action." Doing the former hopefully means I'm a lot less of a selfish asshole when do the latter.

This is really the first time I've tried to actually articulate what the last few months have felt like. A lot of other things happened too--terrific things and awful things--but almost all of it's been shadowed by the fact that my dad isn't around to hear about and immediately forget them. And I don't know when that will stop being the dominant fact of my existence. But if I don't seem angry enough about a cause or ambitious enough in my professional pursuits, I guess I wanted to explain why. It kind of helped. 